README.md, before:

# Products Microservice

This is a **NestJS** microservice for managing products within a larger microservices architecture. It uses **Prisma** as an ORM to connect to a database and communicates with other services via **NATS**.

## Table of Contents

- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  - [Installation](#installation)
- [Running the Application](#running-the-application)
- [Available Scripts](#available-scripts)
- [Environment Variables](#environment-variables)
- [Database](#database)
- [Available Operations (Message Patterns)](#available-operations-message-patterns)
- [Technologies Used](#technologies-used)
- [Project Structure](#project-structure)
- [Contributing](#contributing)

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) (v22.x or higher recommended)
- [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/)

### Installation

1.  Clone the repository:
    ```bash
    git clone <repository-url>
    ```
2.  Navigate to the project directory:
    ```bash
    cd products-ms
    ```
3.  Install the dependencies:
    ```bash
    npm install
    ```
4.  Set up your environment variables by copying the template:
    ```bash
    cp .env.template .env
    ```
    Then, fill in the required values in the `.env` file. See [Environment Variables](#environment-variables) for more details.

## Running the Application

To run the application in development mode with hot-reloading, use:

```bash
npm run start:dev
```

This command will first run `prisma migrate dev` to apply any pending database migrations and generate the Prisma client, then it will start the NestJS application with file watching enabled.

For production mode:

1.  Build the application:
    ```bash
    npm run build
    ```
2.  Start the server:
    ```bash
    npm run start:prod
    ```

## Available Scripts

- `npm run build`: Compiles the TypeScript source code into JavaScript for production.
- `npm run format`: Formats all source files using Prettier.
- `npm run start`: Starts the application from compiled code (for production).
- `npm run start:dev`: Starts the application in development mode with hot-reloading. Automatically runs database migrations.
- `npm run start:debug`: Starts the application in debug mode.
- `npm run start:prod`: Starts the application in production mode.
- `npm run lint`: Lints the source code using ESLint.
- `npm run test`: Runs unit tests.
- `npm run test:watch`: Runs tests in watch mode.
- `npm run test:cov`: Generates a test coverage report.
- `npm run test:e2e`: Runs end-to-end tests.

## Environment Variables

This project requires the following environment variables, which can be set in a `.env` file:

-   `PORT`: The port the microservice will listen on.
-   `DATABASE_URL`: The connection string for the database.
    -   Example for local SQLite: `file:./dev.db`
-   `NATS_SERVERS`: A comma-separated list of NATS server URLs.
    -   Example: `nats://localhost:4222`

Example `.env` file:
```
PORT=3001
DATABASE_URL="file:./dev.db"
NATS_SERVERS=nats://localhost:4222
```

## Database

This project uses **Prisma** to manage the database schema and queries.

-   **Schema:** The database schema is defined in `prisma/schema.prisma`.
-   **Migrations:** While `npm run start:dev` handles migrations automatically, you can also run them manually:
    ```bash
    npx prisma migrate dev
    ```
-   **Prisma Studio:** To view and manage data in the database, you can use Prisma Studio:
    ```bash
    npx prisma studio
    ```

## Available Operations (Message Patterns)

This microservice communicates via NATS using message patterns. The following commands are available:

-   `{ cmd: 'create_product' }`
    -   **Payload:** `CreateProductDto`
    -   **Description:** Creates a new product.
-   `{ cmd: 'find_all_products' }`
    -   **Payload:** `PaginationDto` (`{ page, limit }`)
    -   **Description:** Retrieves a paginated list of products.
-   `{ cmd: 'find_one_product' }`
    -   **Payload:** `{ id: number }`
    -   **Description:** Finds a single product by its ID.
-   `{ cmd: 'update_product' }`
    -   **Payload:** `UpdateProductDto`
    -   **Description:** Updates a product's details.
-   `{ cmd: 'delete_product' }`
    -   **Payload:** `{ id: number }`
    -   **Description:** Deletes a product by its ID.
-   `{ cmd: 'validate_products' }`
    -   **Payload:** `number[]` (Array of product IDs)
    -   **Description:** Validates if a list of products exists, returning the validated products.

## Technologies Used

- [NestJS](https://nestjs.com/)
- [Prisma](https://www.prisma.io/)
- [NATS](https://nats.io/)
- [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/)

## Project Structure

The project follows a standard NestJS application structure:

-   `src/`: Contains the main source code.
    -   `main.ts`: The application entry point.
    -   `app.module.ts`: The root module of the application.
    -   `common/`: Shared modules, DTOs, and utilities.
    -   `config/`: Environment variable configuration.
    -   `products/`: The main business logic module for products, including controllers, services, DTOs, and entities.
-   `prisma/`: Contains the database schema (`schema.prisma`) and migrations.
-   `dist/`: The output directory for the compiled JavaScript code.

---

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please follow these steps:

1.  Fork the repository.
2.  Create a new branch (`git checkout -b feature/your-feature-name`).
3.  Make your changes.
4.  Commit your changes (`git commit -m '''feat: Add some feature'''`).
5.  Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/your-feature-name`).
6.  Create a new Pull Request.

Please make sure to update tests as appropriate.

Commit message:

docs: Create comprehensive project README
Adds detailed documentation covering project setup, environment configuration, API endpoints, Docker usage, and database schema. This improves onboarding for new developers and clarifies project usage.

README.md, after:

# Products Microservice

This is a **NestJS** microservice for managing products within a larger microservices architecture. It uses **Prisma** as an ORM to connect to a database and communicates with other services via **NATS**.

## Table of Contents

- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  - [Installation](#installation)
- [Running the Application](#running-the-application)
- [Docker Support](#docker-support)
- [Available Scripts](#available-scripts)
- [Environment Variables](#environment-variables)
- [Database](#database)
- [Available Operations (Message Patterns)](#available-operations-message-patterns)
- [Technologies Used](#technologies-used)
- [Project Structure](#project-structure)
- [Contributing](#contributing)

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) (v21.x or higher)
- [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/)
- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) (Optional, for containerized deployment)

### Installation

1.  Clone the repository:
    ```bash
    git clone <repository-url>
    ```
2.  Navigate to the project directory:
    ```bash
    cd products-ms
    ```
3.  Install the dependencies:
    ```bash
    npm install
    ```
4.  Set up your environment variables by copying the template:
    ```bash
    cp .env.template .env
    ```
    Then, fill in the required values in the `.env` file. See [Environment Variables](#environment-variables) for more details.

## Running the Application

To run the application in development mode with hot-reloading, use:

```bash
npm run start:dev
```

This command will first run `prisma migrate dev` to apply any pending database migrations and generate the Prisma client, then it will start the NestJS application with file watching enabled.

For production mode:

1.  Build the application:
    ```bash
    npm run build
    ```
2.  Start the server:
    ```bash
    npm run start:prod
    ```

## Docker Support

This project includes a `Dockerfile` for containerization.

1.  **Build the Docker image:**
    ```bash
    docker build -t products-ms .
    ```

2.  **Run the Docker container:**
    Make sure you have a `.env` file created, as the container uses it for environment variables.
    ```bash
    docker run --env-file .env -p 3001:3001 products-ms
    ```
    *   `--env-file .env`: Passes the environment variables from your `.env` file to the container.
    *   `-p 3001:3001`: Maps port 3001 from the container to port 3001 on your host machine. The internal port is set by the `PORT` environment variable.


## Available Scripts

- `npm run build`: Compiles the TypeScript source code into JavaScript for production.
- `npm run format`: Formats all source files using Prettier.
- `npm run start`: Starts the application from compiled code (for production).
- `npm run start:dev`: Starts the application in development mode with hot-reloading. Automatically runs database migrations.
- `npm run start:debug`: Starts the application in debug mode.
- `npm run start:prod`: Starts the application in production mode.
- `npm run lint`: Lints the source code using ESLint.
- `npm run test`: Runs unit tests.
- `npm run test:watch`: Runs tests in watch mode.
- `npm run test:cov`: Generates a test coverage report.
- `npm run test:e2e`: Runs end-to-end tests.

## Environment Variables

This project requires the following environment variables, which can be set in a `.env` file:

-   `PORT`: The port the microservice will listen on.
-   `DATABASE_URL`: The connection string for the database.
    -   Example for local SQLite: `file:./dev.db`
-   `NATS_SERVERS`: A comma-separated list of NATS server URLs.
    -   Example: `nats://localhost:4222`

Example `.env` file:
```
PORT=3001
DATABASE_URL="file:./dev.db"
NATS_SERVERS=nats://localhost:4222
```

## Database

This project uses **Prisma** to manage the database schema and queries.

-   **Schema:** The database schema is defined in `prisma/schema.prisma`.
-   **Migrations:** While `npm run start:dev` handles migrations automatically, you can also run them manually:
    ```bash
    npx prisma migrate dev
    ```
-   **Prisma Studio:** To view and manage data in the database, you can use Prisma Studio:
    ```bash
    npx prisma studio
    ```

## Available Operations (Message Patterns)

This microservice communicates via NATS using message patterns. The following commands are available:

-   `{ cmd: 'create_product' }`
    -   **Payload:** `CreateProductDto`
    -   **Description:** Creates a new product.
-   `{ cmd: 'find_all_products' }`
    -   **Payload:** `PaginationDto` (`{ page, limit }`)
    -   **Description:** Retrieves a paginated list of products.
-   `{ cmd: 'find_one_product' }`
    -   **Payload:** `{ id: number }`
    -   **Description:** Finds a single product by its ID.
-   `{ cmd: 'update_product' }`
    -   **Payload:** `UpdateProductDto`
    -   **Description:** Updates a product's details.
-   `{ cmd: 'delete_product' }`
    -   **Payload:** `{ id: number }`
    -   **Description:** Deletes a product by its ID.
-   `{ cmd: 'validate_products' }`
    -   **Payload:** `number[]` (Array of product IDs)
    -   **Description:** Validates if a list of products exists, returning the validated products.

## Technologies Used

- [NestJS](https://nestjs.com/)
- [Prisma](https://www.prisma.io/)
- [NATS](https://nats.io/)
- [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/)
- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/)

## Project Structure

The project follows a standard NestJS application structure:

-   `src/`: Contains the main source code.
    -   `main.ts`: The application entry point.
    -   `app.module.ts`: The root module of the application.
    -   `common/`: Shared modules, DTOs, and utilities.
    -   `config/`: Environment variable configuration.
    -   `products/`: The main business logic module for products, including controllers, services, DTOs, and entities.
-   `prisma/`: Contains the database schema (`schema.prisma`) and migrations.
-   `dist/`: The output directory for the compiled JavaScript code.

---

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please follow these steps:

1.  Fork the repository.
2.  Create a new branch (`git checkout -b feature/your-feature-name`).
3.  Make your changes.
4.  Commit your changes (`git commit -m "feat: Add some feature"`).
5.  Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/your-feature-name`).
6.  Create a new Pull Request.

Please make sure to update tests as appropriate.
